FPGA-based acceleration of QC-LDPC
syndrome encoding for QKD systems
Marco Origlia∗, Maximilien Pinaud‡, Luca Maggiani‡, Piero Castoldi∗and Nicola Andriolli†
∗TeCIP Institute, Sant’Anna School of Advanced Studies, Pisa IT
‡Sma-RTy Italia SRL, Carugate IT
†Dep. of Information Engineering, University of Pisa, Pisa IT
Abstract —Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) systems will be
fundamental in ensuring secure communications in future net-
works. However, due to device imperfections and the random na-
ture of quantum physics itself, these systems need an information
reconciliation phase to correct for errors in the key exchange. In
particular, for Continuous Variable QKD (CV-QKD) systems, it
is possible to employ Multi-Dimensional Reconciliation (MDR)
with Quasi-Cyclic LDPC (QC-LDPC) error correction codes.
To achieve good reconciliation with low SNR or to limit finite-
size effects, large input block codes should be employed. FPGA
acceleration is here envisioned. In this work we implemented the
encoding for syndromes as large as 1Mbit with a QC-LDPC lift
factor of 512 bits and achieve a throughput exceeding 3.55 Gb/s.
I. I NTRODUCTION
Although rapid development of quantum computers will
open the floor to much more powerful computations, this will
also threaten the current cryptographic infrastructure, based on
a computational barrier to the solution of NP-hard problems,
such as discrete logarithms and large number factorization. In
fact, Shor’s quantum algorithm [1] reduces their computational
complexity to polynomial. To safeguard future communica-
tions, Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) has been extensively
studied and commercial deployments are currently available.
The aim of QKD is to create a shared secret among two
remote parties over a link. Secrecy is guaranteed by the
fundamental laws of physics.
In the asymptotic regime, i.e., for infinitely long data blocks,
both security against collective attacks and especially optimal-
ity of such attacks has been proven, but for obvious practical
reasons, QKD systems must operate on finite-size data blocks
and this must be taken into account when calculating the secret
key rate. In fact, despite optimality of Gaussian attacks among
collective attacks has been proven for the finite-size regime
and a Gaussian modulation [2], collective attacks may not
be optimal. Therefore, a penalty must be introduced when
calculating the practical key rate in such scenarios and the size
of the data blocks plays an very relevant role [3]. The ability to
process large amount of data is therefore vital for increasing
the link distance or to operate at low SNR conditions. This
aspect sets system requirements especially on the data post-
processing phases, i.e. information reconciliation and privacy
amplification. Concerning reconciliation, this implies that very
large syndrome blocks must be computed. For this purpose,
Quasi-Cyclic LDPC (QC-LDPC) codes may be employed. In
Fig. 1. System overview
the reconciliation case, the LDPC encoders have to evaluate
the syndrome of a bit sequence, and decoders will possibly
correct for errors in a copy of the same bit sequence by trying
to match its parity to the syndrome. Due to intensive com-
putation requirements, post-processing operations can benefit
from hardware implementations [4]. Different solutions have
been proposed, for both encoding and decoding tasks, in this
direction: both GPUs [5] and FPGAs [6]–[8] have been used to
process QC-LDPC codes in Multi-Dimensional Reconciliation
(MDR).
In this work we focus on the design of a Syndrome encoder
for Information Reconciliation, addressing 1Mb and larger
input words. We show its feasibility, asses the amount of
resources for its FPGA implementation and its throughput.
II. A RCHITECTURE
Fig. 1 sketches an overview of the designed syndrome
encoder for QC-LDPC codes. A QKD terminal, connected to a
quantum receiver (QRX), a classical transceiver (TX/RX) and
a random data source (such as a Quantum Random Number
Generator, QRNG), offloads computation to the FPGA and
retrieves the results. Custom communication modules manage2024 IEEE Opto-Electronics and Communications Conference (OECC) | 979-8-3503-0839-6/24/$31.00 ©2024 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/OECC54135.2024.10975689
Authorized licensed use limited to: Aizu University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 07:25:45 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. data transfer to and from the external FPGA. In case of MDR,
the FPGA device hosts a Syndrome Processor and a Mapper.
The Syndrome Processor is detailed in Fig. 2. It takes an
input word u∈Fn
2and outputs the corresponding syndrome
s∈Fm
2. The syndrome is derived according to a parity
matrix H∈Fm×n
2 ass=H·u, where products and sums
are in the Galois Field GF(2). Being the code Quasi-Cyclic,
the matrix has a block structure with all square sub-matrices
Hi,j∈Fz×z
2 of size z, the lift factor of the code. Hi,jare
either null- or rotation-matrices, and they can be described by
a set of rotation values ri,j, defined wherever the Hi,j̸=0.
For the sake of processing, both sanducan be seen as made
up of multiple z-sized blocks siandujrespectively. They
are linked by the relation si=PN
j=1Hi,juj. In the Data
Loading section of the module, input data are synchronised
with parity matrix coefficients stored in an on-chip ROM.
Data is then delivered to the Rotator in charge of processing
the data set (uj,{ri,j|i∈N0, i≤M,Hi,j̸=0}). A Block
Distributor delivers the rotated data at the output of Rotators to
the Syndrome Updaters, which are responsible for managing a
specific memory segment where the partial syndrome is stored.
The syndrome is in fact split in multiple segments to allow
concurrent update from multiple Syndrome Updaters. Partial
syndrome blocks are updated according to the iterative formula
sk
i=sk−1
i+Hi,k·uk, with s0
i=0, until completion of
processing of the last input block, to obtain the final syndrome
block si=sN
i.
When the Block Distributor has received and delivered the
last rotated block, it gives notice to the Syndrome Collector
that the syndrome is complete. Finally the Syndrome Collector
will coordinate syndrome block output by collecting data from
Syndrome Downloaders. The following subsections describe
Rotators, the core module of the Syndrome Processor, and
how to store the parity matrix in the on-chip memory.
A. Rotator design principle
Some input blocks affect multiple syndrome blocks, i.e.
the product Hi,j·ujis not identically null for at least 2
syndrome indices i1, . . . , i Mj. To avoid carrying out the same
rotation multiple times for the same input blocks, we designed
a rotator to perform incremental rotations, so they accept
one input block and a sequence of rotation values, so if
ri1,j<···< rik,jare sorted, the module first rotates ujby
ri1,j, and outputs the result (denoted as uri1,j
j=Rri1,j(uj))
to the downstream, where partial syndrome block sj−1
i1will
be updated to sj
i1=sj−1
i1+uri1,j
j. Subsequently a further
rotation is applied to the input block, but this time, instead
of applying the full rotation, we can apply the residual
rotation ri2,j−ri1,jto the previous output and we obtain
uri2,j
j =Rri2,j−ri1,j(uri1,j
j). This operation can be repeated
until the end of the rotation values sequence is reached.
B. Storage of the parity check matrix
To avoid the need to store input blocks uj, we constrain
the design to process all partial products Hi,j·ujback to
back. This implies that the elements of Hshould be storedin columns for easier memory access. Exploiting sparsity
ofH, we can actually store just the rotation values ri,j.
Moreover we avoid storing empty locations, corresponding to
nullHi,jmatrices. To preserve the information of the row i
corresponding to the current ri,j, we simply store iin the same
location as the corresponding rotation value. In order to work
with irregular codes, where the number of non null matrices
per block column is not constant, we should add further
matrix control data in the same memory location, for instance
a last-of-column flag Fland a bottom-of-matrix flag Fbto
the memory locations. In summary, each memory location
contains a tuple (Fb, Fl, i, ri,j).Flwill be used by Rotators
(along with ri,j) to know when current-block processing is
complete and they can accept the next input block uj. The
Rotation Value Loader will use both FlandFbvalues. Flis
used to know when the next sequence of locations will have
to be directed to a different Rotator. Fbis used to know when
to wait for the downstream to update the last syndrome blocks
before restarting from the initial location. iwill be passed over
by the Rotators to let the Syndrome Updaters know which
syndrome block to update with the rotated block uri,j
j.
III. I MPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
The hardware description of the Syndrome Processor has
been written in Verilog and it has been tested on a Multi-Edge-
Type QC-LDPC code with lift factor z= 512 , a syndrome
sizen= 1024 kbit and a rate Rof 0.02. Operation of every
module has been extensively simulated and their output has
been checked using Icarus Verilog and, when integration with
Intel’s IPs was needed or convenient, Modelsim. The whole
Syndrome Processor was then tested on a sequence of 10
input words. The output sequence matched the expected result
sequence, pre-evaluated with a Python script, making use of
thegalois library module. Simulations allow to count how
many clock cycles occur between two consecutive available
syndromes. Maximum clock cycle count Tccan be obtained
when input data are always valid and the downstream is always
ready to withdraw outputs. Given a target operating frequency
f=125 MHz , the corresponding throughput is θ=m·f
Tc[bit/s].
Finally, maximum operating frequency is assessed to exceed
125 MHz by Intel Quartus software on an Intel Stratix V as a
target platform.
The process of simulating and assessing the maximum
operation frequency has been carried out for a varying number
of Rotators. This gives us the chance to select the desired
trade-off between throughput θand resources in Adaptive
Logic Modules (ALMs) and number of registers. Results
are collected in Table I, where the on-chip memory size is
not reported, as it is roughly constant at about 2.19 Mbit .
As expected, both logic elements and on-chip registers scale
linearly with the number of Rotators. For all number of rotators
between 8 and 48, the latency introduced by the Syndrome
Processor is roughly constant and bound to 48k clock cycles.
At the operating frequency of 125 MHz this corresponds to a
processing time of about 0.38 ms . From throughput reduction
Authorized licensed use limited to: Aizu University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 07:25:45 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. Fig. 2. Modules of the Syndrome Processor
and latency rise moving from 48 to 64 Rotators, we deduce
that contention of shared resources is present.
An optimal throughput of 3.55 Gbit /sis obtained with 24
Rotators: with larger numbers the Syndrome Processor does
not exhibit better throughput, while it consumes more re-
sources. The maximum input rate that the Syndrome Processor
is able to accept is 512 bits every 4 clock cycles, i.e. 16 Gbit /s
at125 MHz . Consequently the throughput is upper bounded
by(1−R)·16≲16 Gbit /s. Despite the wide margin of
improvement, the implementation of decoders usually exhibit
much lower throughput. So, this encoder implementation is far
from being the limiting factor of the system.
TABLE I
SUMMARY OF THROUGHPUT AND HARDWARE RESOURCES .
Rotators Tc[cycles]θ[Gbit/s]
@125 MHzALMs Registers
4 73k 1.89 11.6k 28.8k
8 46k 3.2 14.2k 35.7k
16 48k 3.11 20.2k 50.8k
24 42k 3.55 25.9k 66.2k
32 43k 3.53 31.5k 78.1k
48 43k 3.53 39.9k 106.0k
64 62k 2.76 50.8k 134.7k
IV. C ONCLUSION
In this work we report the outcome of the design of the
Syndrome Processor. We assessed linear scalability of both
logic resources and registers for the FPGA implementation of
the module. The latency introduced by syndrome processing
is limited to approximately 0.38 ms . The achievable syndrome
calculation throughput is at least 3.55 Gbit /s, but can be
improved by tackling resource contention.
The Syndrome Processor can be integrated with a Mapper
module, which is in charge of performing the core processing
of Multi-Dimensional Reconciliation, i.e., joint mapping ofGaussian distributed data (obtained from coherent photo-
detection) and the input word into information-free coefficient.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This work was partially carried out within the Departm-
nent of Excellence in AI and Robotics of Scuola Superiore
Sant’Anna, and was supported by the SMARTQKD scholar-
ship, funded by Sma-RTy and CNR-IEIIT.
REFERENCES
[1] P. W. Shor, “Polynomial-Time Algorithms for Prime Factorization and
Discrete Logarithms on a Quantum Computer,” SIAM Rev. , vol. 41, no. 2,
pp. 303–332, Jan. 1999, publisher: Society for Industrial and Applied
Mathematics.
[2] A. Leverrier and P. Grangier, “Simple proof that Gaussian attacks are
optimal among collective attacks against continuous-variable quantum key
distribution with a Gaussian modulation,” Phys. Rev. A , vol. 81, no. 6, p.
062314, Jun. 2010, publisher: American Physical Society.
[3] P. Jouguet, S. Kunz-Jacques, A. Leverrier, P. Grangier, and E. Diamanti,
“Experimental demonstration of long-distance continuous-variable quan-
tum key distribution,” Nature Photon , vol. 7, no. 5, pp. 378–381, May
2013.
[4] H. Li and Y . Pang, “FPGA-Accelerated Quantum Computing Emulation
and Quantum Key Distillation,” IEEE Micro , vol. 41, no. 4, pp. 49–57,
Jul. 2021.
[5] M. Milicevic, C. Feng, L. M. Zhang, and P. G. Gulak, “Quasi-cyclic
multi-edge LDPC codes for long-distance quantum cryptography,” npj
Quantum Inf , vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 1–9, Apr. 2018, number: 1 Publisher:
Nature Publishing Group.
[6] Q. Lu, Z. Lu, H. Yang, S. Yang, and Y . Li, “FPGA-Based Implementation
of Multidimensional Reconciliation Encoding in Quantum Key Distribu-
tion,” Entropy , vol. 25, no. 1, p. 80, Dec. 2022.
[7] K. Cui, J. Wang, H.-F. Zhang, C.-L. Luo, G. Jin, and T.-Y . Chen, “A Real-
Time Design Based on FPGA for Expeditious Error Reconciliation in
QKD System,” IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security ,
vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 184–190, Jan. 2013.
[8] S.-S. Yang, J.-Q. Liu, Z.-G. Lu, Z.-L. Bai, X.-Y . Wang, and Y .-M. Li, “An
FPGA-Based LDPC Decoder With Ultra-Long Codes for Continuous-
Variable Quantum Key Distribution,” IEEE Access , vol. 9, pp. 47 687–
47 697, 2021.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Aizu University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 07:25:45 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 