3786 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 40, NO. 12, JUNE 15, 2022
A Code Rate-Compatible High-Throughput
Hardware Implementation Scheme for QKD
Information Reconciliation
Ming Zhu, Ke Cui , Simeng Li, Lei Kong , Shibiao Tang, and Jian Sun
Abstract —For high-speed quantum key distribution (QKD) post
processing, information reconciliation is the most computational
step, which usually acts as the system speed bottleneck. Reconcil-
iation efﬁciency and operation throughput are the two most im-
portant performance parameters, but they are often compromised
to each other in actual realization due to the available hardware
resources. Another characteristic of the information reconciliation
is that its channel is time-varying, and in order to guarantee high
efﬁciency, some rate-compatible error correction scheme should
be adopted. To cope with the above problems, this paper proposes
a rate-compatible high-efﬁciency reconciliation algorithm based
on quasi-cyclic (QC) low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes and
puncturing algorithms. On the other hand, in order to obtain high
throughput while maintaining low implementation complexity, the
normalized min-sum algorithm (NMSA) is realized and optimized
by using the fast prototyping tool of high-level synthesis (HLS).
The proposed information reconciliation module was implemented
on the Xilinx Zynq Ultrascale +ZCU102 development board. Ex-
perimental results show that the maximum throughput rate of the
implemented reconciliation module in this paper can reach 136
Mbps, while the efﬁciency factor is kept lower than 1.32 across the
error rate range of 1.7% ∼10.6% under the remaining frame error
rate level of 10−3. The comprehensive good performance obtained
by our design can strongly support the development of modern
high-speed QKD systems.
Index Terms —FPGA, HLS, information reconciliation, LDPC,
puncturing, QKD.
I. I NTRODUCTION
QUANTUM key distribution (QKD) [1] allows two legal
parties, namely Alice and Bob, to achieve absolutely
secure shared keys even when the eavesdropper can perform
arbitrary operations on the channel. The security of the QKD
system is based on the quantum mechanics, and its security
cannot be diminished by the computation power [2], [3].
Manuscript received October 13, 2021; revised January 23, 2022; accepted
February 3, 2022. Date of publication February 8, 2022; date of current version
June 16, 2022. This work was supported by the Foundation Enhancement Pro-
gram of Science and Technology Commission under Grant 2019-JCJQ-JJ-356.
(Corresponding author: Ke Cui.)
Ming Zhu, Ke Cui, Simeng Li, and Lei Kong are with the School of Elec-
tronic and Optical Engineering, Nanjing University of Science and Technology,
Nanjing 210094, China (e-mail: njustcuik@njust.edu.cn).
Shibiao Tang and Jian Sun are with the QuantumCtek Company, Ltd., Hefei,
Anhui 230088, China.
Color versions of one or more ﬁgures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/JLT.2022.3149567.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/JLT.2022.3149567A typical QKD post-processing [4] mainly includes four
steps: (1) basis sifting (2) identity authentication (3) information
reconciliation and (4) privacy ampliﬁcation. The information
reconciliation [5]–[9] is needed due to the inconsistent keys
between Alice and Bob, which is caused by the inﬂuence of
channel noise or eavesdropper’s monitoring. The information
reconciliation is the most computational unit of the post process-
ing, which usually acts as the speed bottleneck in achieving high-
throughput post processing capability. Nowadays, by integrating
ultra-high repetition lasers and superconductive single-photon
detectors into QKD system [10], higher key generation rate is
putting forward tenser requirements on the QKD post processing
[11], which stimulates the development of high throughput
information reconciliation implementations.
The ﬁrst proposed information reconciliation scheme for
QKD system is the BBBSS [12] protocol, which uses a single-bit
parity check code as the error correction code. The protocol is
simple and intuitive but makes itself hard to achieve high recon-
ciliation efﬁciency. Then the Cascade protocol is proposed [13],
[14] which is widely adopted by many practical QKD systems
due to its high efﬁciency with the reconciliation efﬁciency factor
fbeing 1.1∼1.3 (the deﬁnition of fcan be found in Section II).
But the Cascade requires multiple interactions during error cor-
rection, which greatly limits the reachable implementation speed
especially for the QKD systems with high network latency. The
Winnow protocol [15] was proposed to overcome the multiple
interaction problem, which can obtain higher throughput, but
its efﬁciency performance is not as good as the Cascade with
fbeing about 1.5. In recent years, the LDPC code [16] begins
to be adopted in the QKD system due to its excellent perfor-
mance [17], [18], including the approaching-the-Shannon-limit
code capacity, one-time interaction, and high-parallelization-
potential decoding algorithm. For practical QKD system, the
channel bit error rate may change within a relatively large range,
but the ﬁxed rate LDPC code can only maintain high recon-
ciliation efﬁciency in a narrow bit error rate interval. In order
to be adapted to the channel error rate variance, it is possible
to include several rates of LDPC code by integrating multiple
LDPC matrixes, but this calls for very strict and challenging
requirements of the high-performance LDPC matrix designs
(given the particular requirement of the LDPC structure such as
quasi cyclic (QC) attribute in this paper). Ref. [5] is the pioneer-
ing work that adopts the code rate adaptive LDPC codes to the
information reconciliation making the reconciliation efﬁciency
0733-8724 © 2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Aizu University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 07:06:58 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. ZHU et al. : CODE RATE-COMPATIBLE HIGH-THROUGHPUT HARDWARE 3787
very close to 1. Ref. [6] further to implement the algorithm on
GPU which achieve the high throughput of tens of megabytes.
In the recent work of Ref. [9], the authors optimized the variable
step sizes in the information reconciliation and further improved
the computation speed. But the adopted rate adjusting method
in the above works was simple, high efﬁciency could not be
guaranteed until long code length was applied, which is very
detrimental to hardware implementation.
In this paper, by introducing the dedicated puncturing al-
gorithm [19] to dynamically adjust the LDPC code rate to be
adapted to the wide channel error rate range, both high recon-
ciliation efﬁciency and low implementation complexity can be
realized.
Among various hardware platforms, the ﬁeld programmable
gate array (FPGA) holding massive logic elements, rich DSP
units and large on-chip RAM storage, has the potential to realize
high-throughput QKD post processing [20]–[22]. The traditional
FPGA-based hardware design requires the designer to write the
register transfer level (RTL) by hand, which is a tedious and
time-consuming task. This brings great burden to the designers
when frequent system updates or modiﬁcations are needed. But
the high-level synthesis (HLS) tool emerging in recent years
provides an efﬁcient and rapid development method which can
accelerate the process of hardware implementation [23], [24].
In this paper, aiming to obtain a information reconciliation
module with both high efﬁciency and high throughput while
maintaining low design complexity, the QC-LDPC code uti-
lizing the normalized minimum sum algorithm (NMSA) is
adopted. The reconciliation protocol is combined with the punc-
turing technique to be adapted to large channel error rate range.
The protocol is written in C language and realized by Vivado
HLS tool which makes the design process rather easy. The
optimization technique of the HLS to obtain high throughput
was speciﬁcally investigated in this paper. The proposed infor-
mation reconciliation module was implemented on the Zynq
Ultrascale +ZCU102 development board. Experimental results
show that the maximum throughput rate of the realized module
can reach 136 Mbps, while the reconciliation efﬁciency factor is
kept lower than 1.32 across the error rate range of 1.7% ∼10.6%
under the remaining frame error rate level of 10−3. The compre-
hensive good performance obtained by our design can strongly
support the development of modern high-speed QKD systems.
II. T HEQKD P OST-PROCESSING AND INFORMATION
RECONCILIATION
The QKD protocol is composed of the quantum channel
transmission and the post processing. The role of the ﬁrst part is
to transmit qubits between Alice and Bob. The role of the second
part is to extract secure keys from the transferred qubits. The
post-processing ﬂow is shown in Fig. 1, which mainly includes
basis sifting, identity authentication, information reconciliation,
and privacy ampliﬁcation. During the basis sifting, Alice an-
nounces the used basis to Bob and Bob keeps the corresponding
qubits which are measured using the same basis as Alice. Identity
authentication is integrated to prevent the man-in-the-middle
attack. To eliminate the mismatch of the raw keys between AliceFig. 1. The post-processing ﬂowchart.
and Bob, the information reconciliation is required to obtain the
consistent keys shared at both sides. Privacy ampliﬁcation is the
hashing operation which distills absolutely secure keys from the
error free bit keys.
The reconciliation efﬁciency fis usually chosen as the per-
formance parameter for the information reconciliation [5]. It
is deﬁned as the theoretical minimal information limit given
by Shannon entropy divided by the actual leaked information
during reconciliation process. For the LDPC code, its calculation
equation is shown as below:
f=m
nh(e)=1−R0
h(e)>1 (1)
wheremandnare the numbers of the row and column of the
LDPC check matrix, R0=1−m/n is the code rate, eis the
channel bit error rate, and h(e)is the Shannon binary entropy:
h(e)=−elog2e−(1−e)log2(1−e) (2)
As reﬂected by (1), the fis usually larger than 1 for an actual
information reconciliation protocol. Therefore, designing some
reconciliation protocol with fapproaching 1 is the design goal
from the perspective of reconciliation efﬁciency.
III. T HEINFORMATION RECONCILIATION PROTOCOL BASED ON
THEQC-LDPC C ODE AND PUNCTURING TECHNIQUE
A. The Information Reconciliation Based on the Puncturing
Technique
For the LDPC code with a ﬁxed code rate, it exists the maximal
channel error rate that the LDPC code can cope with for the
targeted remaining bit error rate (or frame error rate) after error
correction [25]. Therefore, to cover a large channel error rate
range, multiple LDPC check matrixes should be used which may
call for very challenging requirements of the high-performance
LDPC matrix designs especially when we want to keep the QC
Authorized licensed use limited to: Aizu University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 07:06:58 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 3788 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 40, NO. 12, JUNE 15, 2022
Fig. 2. The ﬂow chart of the information reconciliation with adjustable code rate. X/prime/Y/primeis the raw key before information reconciliation and X / Y is the corrected
one after information reconciliation. The green box represents that the LDPC decoder is designed by using the HLS tool.
style of the LDPC codes. Alternatively, another good solution is
to use a single LDPC check matrix combined with the puncturing
technique to be adapted to the wide error rate range. [26]–[28].
The puncturing operation is conducted by deleting pparity
bits from the mother LDPC code by improving the code rate
fromr0=k/n tor1=k/(n−p). Recent studies show that
the puncturing scheme using dedicatedly designed puncture bit
positions has greatly improved error correction performance
than the random puncturing scheme. In this paper, the so-called
grouping and sorting (GS) puncturing algorithm proposed by J.
Ha [19] is adopted to ﬁnd the optimal puncturing bit positions for
our information reconciliation protocol. The algorithm is mainly
divided into two steps: grouping and sorting. By grouping all
variable nodes using the concept of recovery tree, the variable
nodes that require the same number of recovery steps are placed
in the same set. Then the algorithm adjusts the variable nodes
with more surviving check nodes to the set front during the
sorting step, so that the variable node that requires less recovery
steps can be selected ﬁrstly. The maximum achievable code rate
is expressed by (3) [19]:
rmax=r0
1−/summationtextK
j=1|Gj|/n(3)
Where r0is the code rate of the mother matrix, Gjrepresents
the recoverable node set in the j-th step, | Gj| represents the node
number of the set, and Kpresents the total set number.
According to (3), it can be determined that for the LDPC check
matrix with rate of 0.5, the upper code rate limit after puncturing
isrmax 1 /2=0.78, and for the original code rate of 2/3, the
corresponding upper code rate limit can reach rmax 2 /3=0.89.
So by adopting two mother LDPC check matrixes and combined
with the puncturing technique, a wide code rate between 0.5 and
0.89 can be obtained. In this work, by aiming at keeping the
reconciliation efﬁciency lower than about 1.3 and according to
our simulation results, the following eight puncturing vectors
(the collection of the puncture bit positions) with the rates of r
=0.55, 0.6, 0.7, 0.74, 0.78, 0.81, 0.83, 0.84 are calculated and
pre-stored in hardware.
Based on the above puncturing technique, the detailed infor-
mation reconciliation protocol ﬂow is depicted in Fig. 2.
It mainly contains four steps: 1) the channel error rate is esti-
mated by exchanging some small number of keys between Alice
and Bob; 2) according to the initial error rate, the proper target
code rate is selected, and whether to integrate the puncturing
technique is determined by referring to the error rate versusefﬁciency curve as shown in Fig. 5 in Section V. The channel
bit error rate is divided into ten zones which are represented by
ten curves in Fig. 5, and the labeled code rate of the curve in the
corresponding error rate zone is chosen as the target for a given
channel error rate; 3) if the puncturing technique is required, Bob
sets the bit information to 0 according to the positions recorded
in the puncture vector; and 4) the LDPC decoder based on the
HLS is operated (see the next subsection for details) to correct
errors between Alice and Bob.
B. The LDPC Decoder
By balancing the implementation complexity and perfor-
mance, the QC-LDPC is chosen as the check matrix. The
QC-LDPC code has regular structural characteristic to make
itself friendly to hardware implementation. Its check matrix H
is composed of multiple cyclically shifted sub-matrices. The
sub-matrix is described by the base matrix H bwhose dimension
ism∗n. Each element of the H bis a sub-matrix with size of z∗z,
so the total size of the QC-LDPC is mz∗nz. Each non-negative
element of H brepresents a circulant matrix of the unit matrix,
and the value represents the cyclically right shift number. The
IEEE 802.16E standard LDPC codes [29] with rates of 1/2 and
2/3A are chosen as the mother matrix. As for the decoding algo-
rithm, the NMSA is adopted considering its hardware-friendly
implementation capability and small performance degrade [30]
compared with the classical logarithmic domain belief propaga-
tion (BP) decoding algorithm [31].
The NMSA decoding process contains ﬁve steps: initializa-
tion, check node update, variable node update, posterior LLR
update and hard decision. The speciﬁc NMSA decoding ﬂow is
as following:
1) Initialization: The prior logarithmic-likelihood ratio
(LLR) of each variable node is calculated according to (4),
L0(qij)=L(pi)=l o g2P0
i
P1
i(4)
whereP0
i/P1
iis the probability that the i-th bit is 0/1, piis the
i-th priori LLR, and qijrepresents that the information is passed
from the i-variable node to the j-th check node.
2) Check Node Update: The check-to-variable information
Lk(rij)is calculated as:
Lk(rij)=( 1−2Sj)/producttext
i/prime∈R(j)/isgn/parenleftbig
Lk−1(qi/primej)/parenrightbig
×min/vextendsingle/vextendsingleLk−1(qi/primej)/vextendsingle/vextendsingle×α(5)
Authorized licensed use limited to: Aizu University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 07:06:58 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 