JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 38, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2020 3935
High-Speed Post-Processing in Continuous-Variable
Quantum Key Distribution Based on
FPGA Implementation
Shen-Shen Yang , Zhen-Guo Lu, and Yong-Min Li
Abstract —In a continuous-variable quantum key distribution
(CV-QKD) system, the computation speed of the post-processing
procedure, including information reconciliation (IR) and privacy
ampliﬁcation (PA), inevitably affects the practical secret key rate.
IR and PA can be implemented in parallel using low-density parity-
check (LDPC) codes and hash functions, respectively. We achieve
high-speed hardware-accelerated post-processing procedure for
Gaussian symbols on a ﬁeld-programmable gate array (FPGA) by
taking advantage of its superior parallel processing ability. To this
end, the sum-product algorithm decoders and a modiﬁed LDPC
codes construction algorithm adapted to FPGA’s characteristics
are developed and employed. Two different structures including
multiplexing and non-multiplexing are designed to achieve the
trade-off between the speed and area of FPGAs, so that an op-
timal scheme can be adopted according to the requirement of
a practical system. Simulation results show that the maximum
throughput can reach 100 M symbols/s. We veriﬁed the correctness
of the post-processing procedures when implemented on the Xilinx
VC709 evaluation board, which is populated with the Virtex-7
XC7VX690T FPGA and provided some possible solutions to obtain
better performance when more advanced FPGAs are available. The
scheme can be applied readily for real-time key extraction and
effectively reduce power consumption of the CV-QKD system.
Index T erms —Continuous-variable quantum key distribution
(CV-QKD), FPGA, post-processing, real-time.
I. I NTRODUCTION
IN QUANTUM key distribution (QKD) [1]–[6], Alice sends
quantum states in which keys are encoded to Bob through
a quantum channel, and Bob measures the received states with
random bases. Then, a secret key secure in the information-
theoretic sense can be extracted and shared between Alice and
Bob. A QKD system typically includes three steps: (1) quantum
Manuscript received January 16, 2020; revised February 28, 2020 and March
29, 2020; accepted March 30, 2020. Date of publication April 6, 2020; date of
current version July 23, 2020. This work was supported in part by the National
Key R&D Program of China under Grant 2016YFA0301403, in part by the
National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) under Grant 11774209
and Grant 61378010, in part by the Key R&D Project of Shanxi Province
under Grant 201803D121065, and in part by the Shanxi under Grant 1331KSC.
(Corresponding author: Y ong-Min Li.)
The authors are with the State Key Laboratory of Quantum Optics and
Quantum Optics Devices, Institute of Opto-Electronics, Collaborative Inno-
vation Center of Extreme Optics, Shanxi University, Taiyuan 030006, China
(e-mail: 201612607013@email.sxu.edu.cn; 201812607010@email.sxu.edu.cn;
yongmin@sxu.edu.cn).
Color versions of one or more of the ﬁgures in this article are available online
at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/JLT.2020.2985408state preparation, distribution, and measurement; (2) data sifting
and parameter estimation; and (3) post-processing procedure.
The last can be divided into two main parts, information recon-
ciliation (IR), in which Alice and Bob use error correction codes
(ECCs) to correct errors in sifted keys to obtain identical cor-
rected keys, and privacy ampliﬁcation (PA), which eliminates the
leaked information by using universal classes of hash functions
to map long-corrected keys to shorter secure keys.
There are three types of QKD protocols [2]: discrete-variable
QKD (DV-QKD), continuous-variable QKD (CV-QKD) [3]–
[5], and distributed phase reference QKD (DPR-QKD) [7].
CV-QKD has attracted much attention in recent years, mainly
because its information is encoded in the amplitude and phase
quadratures of quantum states so that high-sensitive low-noise
heterodyne or homodyne detection techniques can be employed.
It also has potential higher secret key rates over metropolitan
areas. However, the IR procedure in CV-QKD systems is rela-
tively sophisticated since it works in low signal-to-noise ratio
(SNR) conditions. With the progress of experimental research
[8]–[11], the system’s repetition rate is becoming increasingly
higher, and the data throughput of the post-processing procedure
must be fast enough; otherwise, it will reduce the actual key rate.
Several schemes have been proposed for IR of Gaussian sym-
bols, such as slice reconciliation [12]–[15], multidimensional
reconciliation [16]–[18], and other schemes [19], [20], which
are applicable to a certain range of SNRs. As shown in Fig. 1,
the slice reconciliation can obtain a higher secret key rate in
the case of shorter distance and larger SNR (from 1 to 15),
while multidimensional reconciliation, usually combined with
multi-edge type low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes [17],
[21], [22] or Raptor codes [23], [24], is optimal for a smaller
SNR from 0.01 to 1 and is limited to 1 bit per pulse. For IR in
CV-QKD, very large block ECCs are usually required to achieve
high reconciliation efﬁciency on the additive white Gaussian
noise channel (AWGNC). Because of the large block codes
and many iterations required in IR, the throughputs of the error
correction algorithms is very limited on a central processing unit
(CPU). One feasible way to improve the throughput is to exploit
hardware-based acceleration. Based on graphics processing unit
(GPU), a throughput of 9.17 Mb/s is obtained for multidimen-
sional reconciliation [22]. This record is further improved to
30.39 Mb/s [25] (also based on a GPU). Currently, high-speed
slice reconciliation based on hardware acceleration has not been
achieved.
0733-8724 © 2020 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Aizu University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 07:07:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 3936 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 38, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2020
Fig. 1. Performance of slice reconciliation vs multidimensional reconciliation
with the same reconciliation efﬁciency β= 95% . Other parameters are excess
noiseξ=0.01, efﬁciency of receiver’s detector η=0.64, electronic noise at
Bob’s side Vel=0.1.
Field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) are very attractive
when designing prototypes [26]–[29] and manufacturing small-
production-run devices, and their in-system programmability
makes them substantially cost-effective. In addition, FPGAs
are good at binary operations and can conﬁgure the degree
of parallelism more ﬂexibly, so that it facilitates control over
the trade-off between data throughput and hardware resource
requirements. Furthermore, the power consumption of an FPGA
is much lower than that of a GPU and other hardware.
In this work, we achieve a high-speed post-processing pro-
cedure based on FPGA hardware acceleration. To this end, the
sum-product algorithm decoders and a modiﬁed LDPC codes
construction algorithm adapted to FPGA characteristics are
developed and employed. Two different structures, including
multiplexing and non-multiplexing, are designed to achieve
the trade-off between the area and speed of FPGAs, so that
one can adopt optimal schemes according to the requirements
of a practical system. By implementing multiple code words
decoding simultaneously, the throughput of slice reconciliation
can reach 100 M symbols/s on a Xilinx Virtex-7 FPGA. Finally,
we integrate IR and PA [30] to realize a complete real-time
post-processing procedure.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section II,
we brieﬂy review the post-processing procedure in a CV-QKD
system. Then, we present the two different structures of the
post-processing procedure and the design of LDPC decoders in
Section III. In Section IV, we present detailed implementation
results for the post-processing procedure on FPGA. In Section V,
we give a brief summary and discussion.
II. P OST-PROCESSING IN CV-QKD
Fig. 2 shows a typical structure of the post-processing pro-
cedure with reverse slice reconciliation and PA in CV-QKD
systems. In the IR part, LDPC codes are employed to achieveFig. 2. Schematic of the post-processing with slice reconciliation and PA in
the CV-QKD system. {Bi}are the levels corresponding to the less signiﬁcant
bits, and{Si}are the syndromes of the signiﬁcant bits calculated according to
the parity-check matrix of LDPC codes.
Fig. 3. Slice reconciliation based on ﬁve levels of encoding and decod-
ing.RawKeyX andYare correlated Gaussian symbols obtained after base
sifting in a CV-QKD system. Quantizer is used to quantize the Gaussian
symbolsYand obtain ﬁve bit strings L1,L2,L3,L4,a n dL5;S4andS5are
syndromes generated by LDPC encoding modules Encoder of levels 4 and
5, respectively; L/prime
4andL/prime
5are corrected secret keys output from the LDPC
decoding modules Decoder of levels 4 and 5.
high-speed and high-efﬁciency IR. The PA is implemented by
the Toeplitz matrix, which is a special universal hash function.
A. Slice Reconciliation Protocol
Slice reconciliation [12]–[15] is an error correction scheme
for Gaussian symbols using binary error correcting codes. It
works in different ways on both parties; see Fig. 3 for a schematic
Authorized licensed use limited to: Aizu University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 07:07:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. YANG et al. : HIGH-SPEED POST-PROCESSING IN CONTINUOUS-V ARIABLE QUANTUM KEY DISTRIBUTION 3937
description of the slice reconciliation. For reverse slice recon-
ciliation, Bob uses the quantizing function Q:R→{0,1}mto
transform each continuous Gaussian variable Yiinto anm-bit
label{Bj(Yi)},j=1,...,m . Next, Bob uses multilevel coding
(MLC) by encoding each individual level jof label bits inde-
pendently as the syndrome of an error correcting code with rate
Rj(1≤j≤m). To recover Bob’s m-bit label {Bj}, the sender
Alice employs multistage decoding (MSD) using its own source
Xas side information. Finally, the two parties share identical
corrected keys.
In our scheme, raw key Yare quantiﬁed to ﬁve levels. The
information included in the ﬁrst three levels is very small and
disclosed directly, and the latter two levels are encoded and suc-
cessively decoded. More precisely, Bob must send the quantized
bit strings {B1(Yi)},{B2(Yi)}, and{B3(Yi)}of the ﬁrst three
levels and the syndromes S4andS5of the last two levels to Alice.
For simplicity, hereafter we use L1,L2, andL3to represent
{B1(Yi)},{B2(Yi)}, and{B3(Yi)}.
The efﬁciency βof the slice reconciliation is given by
β=H[Q(Y)]−m+/summationtextm
i=1Ri
I(X;Y), (1)
whereQ(Y)is the discrete symbol by quantizing Y,H[Q(Y)]
is the information entropy of Q(Y), andI(X;Y)is the mutual
information between Alice and Bob.
B. Standard LDPC Codes
LDPC codes [31] is a good performance error correction code
and can be used to achieve high-efﬁciency IR very close to
the Shannon limit. The performance of LDPC decoders greatly
affects the reconciliation efﬁciency in CV-QKD. To implement
LDPC decoders based on hardware, the approaches of each step
should be carefully designed to achieve the best performance,
including decoding algorithms, message propagation schedule,
construction of check matrix, and so on.
1) Decoding Algorithms: LDPC codes are usually decoded
using a belief propagation (BP) algorithm, in which messages
typically in the form of a logarithmic-likelihood ratio (LLR) are
iteratively passed in both directions along the edges between
connected nodes.
The two most dominating LDPC decoding algorithms are
the sum-product algorithm (SPA) and the min-sum algorithm
(MSA). Note that two modiﬁcations of the MSA, called the
normalized MSA and offset MSA [32], have been proposed to
improve performance. Although MSAs are easy to implement
on FPGA, the highest reconciliation efﬁciency in our test that
can be achieved is less than 90%. Therefore, the SPA is chosen
in our design.
2) Message Propagation Schedule [33]: The schedule of the
LDPC decoding process determines the order in which variable
nodes and check nodes are processed, as well as whether mul-
tiple nodes are processed in parallel. Flooding, layered belief
propagation (LBP) [34], and informed dynamic scheduling are
three widely used schedules. LBP tends to converge to the
correct code word with fewer iterations and therefore has lower
computational complexity, and the memory size required for aLBP decoder is half of that required for a ﬂooding decoder. In
consideration of these features, the LBP schedule is adopted in
our scheme.
3) Construction of P arity Check Matrix (PCM): In addition
to the size of matrix block and the degree distributions of its
nodes, the position of the edges also has a signiﬁcant impact on
error correction performance. A number of techniques have been
proposed, such as random construction, the progressive edge
growth (PEG) algorithm, and quasi-cyclic (QC) codes. Previous
work showed that the PEG algorithm has better performance at
SNR∼3 [14], while random construction exhibits better perfor-
mance at SNR ∼1 [15]. QC codes are deﬁned by a parity-check
matrix constructed from an array of q×qcyclically shifted
identity matrices or q×qzero matrices. QC codes impose a
highly regular parity-check matrix structure with a sufﬁcient
degree of randomness offset to achieve near-Shannon-limit er-
ror correction performance while reducing the implementation
complexity of the decoder. QC codes also reduce data permu-
tation and memory access complexity by eliminating random,
unordered memory access patterns.
In the proposed scheme, a small base matrix is ﬁrst con-
structed using the PEG algorithm or random construction, de-
pending on the speciﬁc SNRs, and a large block matrix is succes-
sively obtained by quasi-cyclic expansion. When implementing
the LDPC decoders based on FPGA, there are inevitably some
clock delays between the writing and reading of LLR data
during the calculating procedure. To use the pipeline structure
to improve the throughput, the structure of the matrix must have
enough interval between the two nodes in the same column to
avoid read-write conﬂicts.
C. Practical Secret Key Rate
Accounting for the ﬁnite-size effects [35], the secret key
rate of a reverse reconciliation CV-QKD system is given by
Kfinite=(n/N)(βIAB−χBE−Δ(n)), wherenis the num-
ber of data used to distill the secret key, Nis the number of sifted
data after quantum transmission and measurement, N−nis the
number of data used for parameter estimation, IABis the mutual
information between Alice and Bob, χBEis the Holevo bound,
andΔ(n)is the ﬁnite-size offset factor.
In the above, the secret key rate is derived without consider-
ing the actual throughput of the post-processing procedure; in
other words, we assume that the post-processing procedure is
real-time. In a practical QKD system, the computation time of
the post-processing procedure is limited. More precisely, the
practical key rate is affected by a factor α=PP out/PP in,
wherePP inandPP outrepresent the post-processing input and
output rates, respectively [36]. In general, we have 0<α≤1.
Furthermore, raw key blocks incorrectly decoded in a QKD
system are usually simply discarded by the sender and receiver.
As a result, the ﬁnal key rate are also affected by the frame error
rate (FER) of the LDPC decoder.
Taking into account all the previous factors in the CV-QKD
system, the practical secret key rate is given by
Kprac=α(1−FER)/parenleftBign
N/parenrightBig
(βIAB−χBE−Δ(n)).(2)
Authorized licensed use limited to: Aizu University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 07:07:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 